---
layout: post
title: Week 8 - Guest Speaker Week
---

This week, Professor Joanna invited two guests who work in OSSD via Zoom to talk about their experiences working in Open Source. Unfortunately, the speaker for Tuesday couldn't make it, so we had a lecture on the future of AI followed by an activity. However, on Thursday, we were greeted with a visit from Nick Vidal, Head of Community at Open Source Initiative (OSI). Click on 'Read More' to hear my thoughts.
<!--more-->

### Reflections on Nick Vidal's Talk
Nick Vidal's presentation was about open source AI, what it is, and how it's currently being used. Going into it, I didn't even know AI could be open source, with the way these big companies have been privatizing the technology and investing billions, making the barrier to entry really high. However, the presentation was really informative about what it means for an AI to be open source. According to Vidal, there are three main components for AI to be open source:
- Detailed information about training data and selection methodologies
- Complete source code
- Model parameters

If it doesn't meet all three requirements, then according to the OSI definition of open source AI, it is not considered OS AI.

The other main point that was really interesting was on the topic of open washing, a shady practice where companies market their projects as open source when they don't meet the definition requirements. AI model companies use the allure of having something marketed as open source to gain traction, but keep critical components proprietary and their source code hidden. Thus, it's especially important to do your research on the open sourceness of a project before using it.

### History and Faces of Open Source 
On Tuesday this week, instead of having a guest lecturer, we had a lecture by Professor Joanna herself. It was really interesting to go into depth about the history of open source. It was interesting to hear that before GNU there wasn't even a concept of open source, since all machines ran their own proprietary software. It was more hardware-focused back then.

We also did an activity where we did research on a person who works in open source. I was paired up with Michelle and together we wrote a brief report on Karen Sandler. Karen Sandler was a lawyer and activist who worked as a director in many open source organizations, such as the Software Freedom Conservancy and the GNOME Foundation. Some of her accomplishments include:
- An Award for the Advancement of Free Software in 2017
- General Counsel at the Software Freedom Law Center
- Raising advocacy for open source software in medical devices

More info available [here](https://github.com/ossd-s25/wiki/wiki/Karen-Sandler).

All in all, a great week where we learned about the history of OSSD, before jumping into some present-day challenges in the field thanks to our guest speaker Nick Vidal.