---
layout: post
title: Week 7 - Group Project Team Work Begins!
---

This week, I was placed into a group with two talented and hardworking individuals, Chardin Xia and Simon Sherbet. Our goal this week was to get to konw each other, decide on a group project, and set goals and meeting times for the upcoming week. Heres how that went: 
<!--more-->
### Introductions, Decisions, and Challenges

After introducing ourselves and getting to know a little about each other, we began to work. Simon wanted to initialy work on a desktop application because that's an area that he lacks expertise in and would like to improve on. Chardin had no project preference but did have a language preference: python and javascript. Fortunately for the rest of the team, that was also everyone's language preference, so we got to work on looking for desktop apps that incorporate python and/or javascript. 

To make this jouney easier, we used resources like the project evaluation repo and [Code Triage](https://www.codetriage.com/). We actually found a project that had everything we were looking for and we were interested in, [itch.io](https://github.com/itchio/), but unfortunately the contributions that were being made were out of our scope and would be too difficult to tackle in the remaining weeks of the semester. While we couldn't fully narrow down our options after the first two class discussions, we narrowed it down to two options we felt strongly about: iNaturalist and Oppia.

###  Goals and Next Steps

Now that we narrowed it down to two options, our next steps involved setting up the development environment for both Oppia and iNaturalist on our personal machines. This step was crucial to ensure we would actually be able to contribute to these projects. Professor Joanna suggested this to us because in the past, students have had difficulty with these two envieronemnts before. She was right; while the instructions for settings up the environments were clear, it was a tedious process that we did not finish by the end of Wednesday's class.

We arranged to meet on discord (preffered method of communication) Friday March 7 @ 2pm to update each other on our progress setting up the development enviornment. Moving forward, we will meet on discord on Fridays with an exact time TBD because of everyone's different scheudles. 

Update (3/10/25): We decided on Oppia. Our next meeting is Wednesday March 12 at 2pm. 

