---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---
Hi Everyone! This first blogpost begins my jouney in Open Source Software Development with Professor Joanna. My initial thoughts on this course are that its unique and rewarding. Unique in the sense that no other course at NYU has its students working with and contributing to open source software development projects and rewarding in that the contributions made throughout the course will help me flesh out my github and build the skills necessary to create my open open source project in the future. 
### Open Source
When I think of open source, I think of software that is free to use, with a public license and able to be modified and shared with others. I think of building software for the community and user, not for the select few. I think of a robust team of passionate engineers working together to enhance the experience of the program not only for themselves, but for the whole community. I also think of a secure, transparent program that allows others to see how it's designed and secured.
Some advantages of open source is its transparency, and cost. The source code is available for everyone to use and modify, and its free! Some potential problems are lack of updates from the author, or security issues in the code.
### Projects I've used or have Influenced me
* **Atmosphere** is a open source custom firmware (CFW) for the nintendo switch. I've used this software in the past to mod my nintendo switch and while I haven't worked directly on the source code, I've helped contributers by reporting bugs, crashes and issues with the software. 
* **Git** is a popular open source software used by many developers and needs no introduction. It is a version control system that is extremely useful for software development. Git is not limited to pull and push requests, and I hope to expand my knowledge on this software throughout the course.
* **Python** is considered an open source programming language that I use regularly for software development and data analysis. I'm amazed at their extensive libraries and its simple to understand syntax, which is what makes the language a very popular choice among developers.
* **VS Code** is open source and I use it daily to write code and build software. Its numerous extensions and co-pilot availibility make it a versitile IDE (integrated development environment) for a variety of languages which is why i personally use it as my go-to IDE.