---
layout: post
title: Week 4 -Git activity & Presentations
---
### Exploring Git Commands
On Monday, we went over some essential Git commands like `git status`, `git log`, and `git branch`. This session was quite useful for me because, even though I’ve used Git before, I never took the time to thoroughly understand the purpose of these commonly used commands. I always thought I would eventually figure out their functions through practice. Additionally, I appreciated how it was clearly illustrated that these Git commands operate solely on the local machine. This helped me better understand how local systems interact with remote servers.
<!--more-->
### Thoughts on the Group Presentations and their Extensions
Wow. It was incredible to see how much can be done in such a short period of time. I really liked how the ideas for the extensions presented ranged from practical ('Tomato Clock') to fun ('I did that'). It's amazing to see how each group approached the task of creating an extension differently and creatively. One group in particular even designed the icons that they used for the UI themselves ('Virtual Pet') which wasn't even required but goes to show their passion and interest for the project.

Beyond the extension, this was also a project to showcase collaboration and contribution in an Open Source environment, and each group made careful decisions when creating their README, CONTRIBUTING, LICENSE, and CODE OF CONDUCT files. For instance, the QuickNotes Group included two README files, one that they used specifically for the group presentation and another condensed version for general purposes. Interestingly, the WebsiteTimeTracker group decided to include a code of conduct termed the No Code of Conduct where any type of contribution is accepted and respecting others is an established norm. This caught my interest because it was so original and unique, but yet embodies the vision of the original authors of the project, which I liked.

### Takeaways

I think the biggest takeaway from the group presentation is to ultimately have fun with your project and work on something that you're interested in and passionate about. My group purposefully chose something useful and unimaginative not because we didn't have great ideas, but because we thought we had to. Seeing the liberal approaches to this project taken by other teams inspired me to create my next extension about something that motivates me and intersts me - people do tend to work better this way.