---
layout: post
title: Week 3 - Building a Browser Extension

---
This week, I was placed in a group with Michelle, Harry, and David and we were tasked with completing an activity that involved creating and installing our very first chrome extension, first step-by-step, then on our own. We collaborated very efficiently to create a browser extension that takes one currency amount and converts it to another currency. We decided to choose something simple like a currency converter for this project because we wanted to familiarize ourselves with an open-source environment past the coding aspect - using git, choosing a proper license, writing a code of conduct, and handling merge conflicts. I think we were able to accomplish our goal: here's a [link](https://github.com/ossd-s25/Currency-Unit-Converter) to our browser extension. 
<!--more-->

### Strengths and Challenges
I think one thing our team did well was communicate as a group to make sure we were on the same page. As Professor Joanna mentioned, there was a disparity in skill levels between my group members. One was very experienced in git, another in JavaScript, and another in contributing to open-source projects. So it was nice to see that we were frequently communicating with each other on our progress and using our strengths to help others in their areas of growth. 

One challenge our group faced when working on this project was choosing an idea for our browser extension. This was because we all had different interests and our ideas reflected that. I was rusty with JavaScript so I wanted to build an extension that changed the theme from light to dark and vice versa, others preferred to copy an extension that already exists, and others wanted to create an extension that collects user data. Ultimately we were able to communicate and come to a consensus for a project keeping everyone's skill level and goals in mind.

### What I learned
In this project, I learned how to write the template framework for a browser extension. I did not know that a browser extension was as easy as having 3 files inside of a directory! I also learned how to set up contributor files and properly include a code of conduct and an open-source license in my projects, which is useful if I decide to make one of my personal projects open source. I learned hands-on about pull requests and merge conflicts, which will only become more useful as I progress through this course. 

### Conclusion
Overall, the project was a pretty good way to familiarize yourself with developing browser extensions which I found extremely useful because I had no prior knowledge. I also thought it was a good way to get hands-on experience as a contributor to an open-source project and everything that comes with it (handling merge issues, using git, working as a team, etc.) Looking forward to using these skills to improve my open-source contributions.