---
layout: post
title: Week 5 - Project Evaluations
---
This week, the class was split into groups of three, and each group was assigned an open source project to evaluate. My group was assigned the open source project [Atmosphere](https://github.com/Atmosphere-NX/Atmosphere). We evaluated this project by filling out a questionnaire given to us by Professor Joanna. After we were done, we were also given the chance to look at other groups' project evaluations. 
<!--more-->
### Atmosphere: Beginner Beware
Atmosphere was actually the project that I listed as one of my favorite open source projects when I completed [blogpost_1](https://ossd-s25.github.io/cmorocho11-weekly/week01/). I'm very familiar with the project because it's a must-have homebrew firmware if you intend on modding your Nintendo Switch, and I love modding/hacking video game consoles. I was surprised that Joanna chose this project for our group to evaluate because while I did mention I helped with bugs and crashes, it never went beyond pressing 'yes' when the application froze, restarted, and then asked the user, "Do you want to report this issue to the author?". 

Upon completing this activity, I noticed right away that it was one man, [SciresM](https://github.com/SciresM), running the show with over 3000 commits since the project first began in January of 2018. For comparison, the next top contributor only has about 200 commits, and the 4th has less than 50. Despite this, the issues and pull requests are still fairly active, with the latest pull request closed and completed on January 19, 2025, and the latest issue being reported only two weeks ago. The author is also fairly responsive to issues and requests, responding to these requests within a day, which is amazing to see. What does need work, however, is the contributor guidelines, as the author does include one, but it's a very generic one that is not specific to the project at all. Lastly, installing the developer environment was very tricky despite having clear instructions in the documentation because it was very software specific, running best on Linux machines with Python 2 and worst on Windows machines. Overall, I would not recommend this project for anybody in this class who is starting out, as the learning curve is very high for a student who is taking this course. 

### Thoughts and Challenges
After looking at all the other project evaluations, I'm very excited to contribute to a project that is beginner-friendly with an active community. I would like to be able to reach out to other strangers on the internet for help on an issue or bug I'm facing and receive timely assistance. However, it cannot be too active because some projects like Free Code Camp have issues that get resolved the day of, giving no time for beginners to tackle them or look over them. This is especially disadvantageous looking forward to the group project, as it would be a shame to spend time on making a contribution only for it to not make the final build because someone implemented a solution before you did.

I think the biggest issue I'll face is trying to find something that I'm interested in, but that's also easy to contribute to. I really liked the MuseScore open source project, but upon reading about how much the group who evaluated it struggled, especially when doing something as 'simple' as setting up the development environment, I'm having doubts. Therefore, striking that balance between passion, creativity, and complexity when looking for a project is something that I'll struggle with but hopefully find by next week when it's time to submit my project preference form. 