---
layout: post
title: Week 2':' Reflection and Answers
---

### Code of Conduct Activity 
This week, I worked with three classmates to compare and contrast various open-source project codes of conduct. I learned that having a code of conduct is beneficial because it clearly outlines the behavior and responsibilites expected by all contributing members in a project. This leaves no room for debate and provides clarification of conduct for contributors from all cultures and backgrounds. 

We compared the code of conduct for the Contributor Covenant and the Go project. While the Go project is based off the Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct, we noticed two differences. First, the contributor covenant code of conduct is very barebones and the general message is clear: to create a postive environment and do unto others as they would want done to them. The Go project code of conduct expands on this and includes their own _gopher values_ which specifically outlines values to which people of the Go community should aspire. Some notable ones inlcude being charitable and patient, which help reaveal the culture surrounding the Go project community. 

Another difference is how Go enforces those who violate their code of conduct. Contributor Covenant's approach is very impersonal, asking members to simply contact the project team via email, where complaints will be investigated and they will reach out with a response. On the other hand, 'Gophers' are encouraged to address the conflict causing behavior directlty with those involved through discourse, a more humanistic approach. If they are unable to resolve the conflict that way, then report it via email.

Interestingly, [Eclipse](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php) is also included as a project that adapted the Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct. What I noticed is that the Eclipse Code of Conduct has different structure and content compared to the one written by the Contributor Covenant. The responsibility for upholding the code rests with the Conduct Committee, and instead of an Enforcement section in the Code, there are Investigation, Actions, and No Retaliation sections. I think Eclipse structured their Code of Conduct this way because they are a much larger organization and receive many reports a day, so a commitee is necessary to handle all requests. Also, it is only natural and human that some individuals may retaliate against actions taken by other contributors, so a 'No Retaliation' section is logical to include an an enhancement to the orignal work. 

We also looked at the Code of Conduct for [Sugar Labs](https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Legal/Code_of_Conduct) and compared it to the Code of Conduct for the Go Project. We noticed that Sugar Labs' code is broken down into four main values, followed by two sections on conflict resolution. There is also an interesting section on what to do if you leave the Sugar Labs project, which is not listed in Go's Code of Conduct. These significant differences are likely due to Sugar Labs adapting the [Ubuntu Code of Conduct](https://ubuntu.com/community/ethos/code-of-conduct).

Lastly, we looked at the Code of Conduct for [Python](https://policies.python.org/python.org/code-of-conduct/). We noticed that it uses a different license from the other projects we examined— the [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/). Because of this, its structure and content are completely different, even including a Weapons Policy section in the Code. The Scope and Standards sections are also more expansive, clearly outlining to participants what is expected of them. We think Python included these elements in its Code of Conduct because of the vast size of its community, as it is one of the largest programming languages used globally.

### Thoughts on _How to Drive Consensus & Transparency in OpenSource Communities_
I had the pleasure of watching the presentation _How to Drive Consensus & Transparency in Open Source Communities_. I found it very educational, especially for someone who has worked on a team before and has often struggled to get all team members to reach a general consensus. The presentation can be summarized in three key points: find the "North Star," host mediated discussions where open communication and active listening are crucial, and refer to the company’s Code of Conduct if conflict arises.  

I really liked the first point, "Find the North Star," because, when discussing project goals with team members, conversations can sometimes take a negative turn. Personal agendas and emotions may become involved, derailing efforts to reach a consensus. Thus, reminding the team of its overarching goal and vision is crucial to keeping everyone aligned. From there, the discussion can pivot to how to achieve that goal by planning different approaches. This is all done by fostering a welcoming and safe environment where everyone’s voices are heard, and the mediator remains open to the diverse needs and expectations of the group.  

The presentation also offers practical solutions for managing conflict when it arises. What I found particularly interesting was the emphasis on using the Code of Conduct as a guideline for mediating discussions. This reinforces the importance of such documents and provides a strong case for their necessity. It also highlights why contributors should be cautious about joining a project or community that lacks one.  

Overall, I really enjoyed the presentation and believe it deserves more recognition than the 66 views it currently has on YouTube. I will definitely apply the skills and techniques I learned about driving consensus and navigating conflict in future group class activities—especially in the latter half of the semester when we begin working in teams and making more substantial contributions to open-source projects.  